content.en/docs/chapters/hello-world.md, before:

---
weight: 3
---

# Hello World

**[You can find all the code for this chapter here](https://github.com/pmareke/learn-python-with-tests/tree/main/examples/hello)**

It is traditional for your first program in a new language to be [Hello, World](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/%22Hello,_World!%22_program).

- Create a folder wherever you like
- Put a new file in it called `hello.rb` and put the following code inside it

```python
def main
    print("Hello, world")
end

main
```

To run it type `python hello.rb`.

## How it works

When you write a program in Python just can define a method and after that just call it.

The `def` keyword is how you define a function with a name and a body.

Python provide out of the box a function called `print` that we use to print out to the console.

## How to test

How do you test this? It is good to separate your "domain" code from the outside world \(side-effects\).

The `print` is a side effect \(printing to stdout\) and the string we send in is our domain.

So let's separate these concerns so it's easier to test

```python
def hello
  return "Hello, world"
end

def main
  print(hello)
end

main
```

We have created a new function again with `def` called hello.

Now create a new file called `hello_test.rb` where we are going to write a test for our `hello` function

```python
require "minitest/autorun"

require_relative "hello"

class TestHello < Minitest::Test
  def test_hello
    assert_equal hello, "Hello, world" 
  end
end
```

Commit message:

feat: migrate to python from Ruby

content.en/docs/chapters/hello-world.md, after:

---
weight: 3
---

# Hello World

**[You can find all the code for this chapter here](https://github.com/pmareke/learn-python-with-tests/tree/main/examples/hello)**

It is traditional for your first program in a new language to be [Hello, World](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/%22Hello,_World!%22_program).

- Create a folder wherever you like
- Put a new file in it called `hello.py` and put the following code inside it

```python
class Hello:
    def hello(self) -> str:
        print("Hello, world")


def main():
    hello = Hello()
```

To run it type `python hello.py`.

## How it works

When you write a program in Python just can define a method and after that just call it.

The `class` keyword is how you define a class with a name and a body.

The `def` keyword is how you define a function with a name and a body.

Python provide out of the box a function called `print` that we use to print out to the console.

## How to test

How do you test this? It is good to separate your "domain" code from the outside world \(side-effects\).

The `print` is a side effect \(printing to stdout\) and the string we send in is our domain.

So let's separate these concerns so it's easier to test

```python
class Hello:
    def hello(self) -> str:
        return "Hello, world"


def main():
    hello = Hello()
    print(hello.hello())
```

We have created a new function again with `def` called hello.

Now create a new file called `test_hello.py` where we are going to write a test for our `hello` function

```python
from expects import equal, expect

from hello import Hello


class TestHello:
    def test_hello(self) -> None:
        hello = Hello()

        expect(hello.hello()).to(equal("Hello, world"))
```
